Peer Production Adaptation Paper
Joohee Oh

“French pour toutes et tous” community and how it works

What is French pour toutes et tous
The French pour toutes et tous (French for all) is a worldwide community of French learners established on Facebook in 2014. This community aims to create a synergy between learners of French as a foreign language and Francophones who want to learn one or more foreign languages. These foreign languages include Korean, Chinese, Japanese Vietnamese, English, Spanish, Arabic, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Turkish, etc. This community is open to anyone who wants to learn these languages. 

How it works: focusing on its collaboration infrastructure and technologies
People in this community upload any material they are interested in, such as videos, articles, extracts of comics, songs, movies, or television series, written or spoken in their mother tongue or French. They try to translate the contents or read them aloud in French if the material was written or spoken in their mother tongue. They would do the same thing in their mother tongue if the material was initially written and spoken in French. Then texts or sound sources written or spoken in two languages will be produced, after editing, adding, or deleting by other members who can speak these languages used fluently. In most cases, grammatical issues and misunderstanding regarding cultural aspects are re-translated, and those corrected texts are shared with others. This community has people in charge of each language, as well. These are professors, teachers, or translators of each language that is commonly used in this community. They improve the quality of posts by providing professional opinions on the disputed parts of the translation. Nevertheless, it is obvious that those specialists are not the person who owns particular tasks alone. They are just coordinators to make the group work more efficiently and effectively. 

At first, people mainly used short articles or videos talking about current issues on Facebook. The small amount of text talking on Facebook allowed people to modify the translation quickly and easily share their opinions. However, it was challenging to work on a big project on Facebook because it is not an appropriate platform to conduct group work. People have to give and receive opinions to participate in these group projects, the changes they made should be recorded in orderly, but they cannot do on Facebook. Due to the lack of proper places where people can work together, members of this community are starting to talk about building a new structure. Sometimes the members collaborate with other organizations for a translation. For instance, last year, the professor who proposed and founded this community brought a big project to this community. They translated a Korean novel into French with colleagues and students in a University in France, and also with French high school students. In this project, they worked on an opensource platform traduxio.org using Github, or on other platforms like EDMODO or Google docs to increase efficiency. 
Lately, it starts to plan out participating in other activities, especially related to open education. The idea is to read and record the community’s selected posts aloud in each language and provide the sound source to foreign language learners through websites like https://www.audio-lingua.eu/?lang=fr or http://www.elllo.org/.  The group also comes up with ideas of podcasting with this sound source or providing their sound source and scripts to Youtube education channel like https://www.youtube.com/user/talktomeinkorean.

“French pour toutes et tous” as an effort to adapt “Peer production” and challenges for that

What are key features of peer production?
According to Yochai Benkler, “Peer production combines three core characteristics: (a) decentralization of conception and execution of problems and solutions, (b) harnessing diverse motivations, and (c) separation of governance and management from property and contract.” Based on this definition, French pour toutes et tous have these features, but also have some difficulties adapting some of them thoroughly. (Yochai Benkler, 2016. Peer production and cooperation) Based on these critical features, I am going to discuss the efforts and difficulties for French pour toutes et tous to be a peer production community. 

Decentralized conception and execution of tasks and solutions, but…
At the time of the establishment of French pour toutes et tous, its founder, a French professor, exerted a strong leadership to lay the foundation for this community. He created this community on Facebook, announced the purpose and operation of the community, and brought out topics that would be interesting to members. Once many people were starting to join this community, he no longer needed to focus much on attracting members and running the community. He no longer needed to focus much on attracting members and running the community. They participated in sharing the contents of their interests, the tasks, and their execution becomes more decentralized. For example, people were willing to self-assign their tasks and topics, participate in any translation, and it has created synergies in the production of texts written in two languages. They tried to share various materials and edited other’s translation or add their opinions. They always researched and discussed how they could improve the quality of translation for their contents. 

However, the initial heat of participation did not last long. After a few months, only a few enthusiastic people participated in the translation, and there was not much feedback. As members' participation decreased, the founder's leadership began to reinforce. The members’ comments were sometimes not corrected, so the founder participated in many areas and tried to solve their problems. Since he wanted to maintain this group longer, he attended more on the community's activities than anyone else. He provided topics that people could work with, responded to a lot of questions regarding how to translate, and gave much feedback on how the community would operate. The reason for this decrease in decentralization from his perspective was that the other members lacked the motivation to participate, unlike him. 

Nov, O. 2007. What motivates Wikipedians? Communications of the ACM, 50(11), ACM New York, NY, USA.) 
Crowston (2018) made a claim that went to further than this. He argues that "what was previously considered a single, static and individual phenomenon, namely motivation for contribution to user generated contents(UGC), is, in fact, three separate but interrelated phenomena with separate motives for initial, sustained and meta-contribution (i.e., contributions that structure and enable further contributions." (Bryant et al., 2005)). In the case of French pour toutes et tous, the distinction between initial and sustained contributors should be understood first to drive people more engaged for a longer term. For initial contributors, he views “the decision to make an initial contribution as largely curiosity-driven, driven by project visibility and the project's being easy to use with low barriers to entry.” (Crowston, K., & Fagnot, I., 2018)
On the other hand, for sustained contributors, “the decision to continue contributing as driven by the contributor's feelings of obligation to the project, the intrinsic motivation of the task and feedback from the task and other participants.” (Crowston, K., & Fagnot, I., 2018) So let's think about the contributors to this community. Based on an interview, the participant was able to participate in the first project easily and enjoyed participating. However, he was disappointed that the project was completed, but the results were not produced in a well-structured format. As a result, his willingness to participate in other projects has been reduced a lot, and he feels that he does not have to participate. As long as the results continue to be produced in this way, other participants will feel the same emotions. The involvement of some active members can not solve this decline in willingness to participate. This depends on improving the structural problems of the project. It can give them a sense of psychological reward and responsibility during and after the project, and a sense of obligation to participate in other projects as a member of this community. It is important to maintain the community members motivated for community activities. This could be supported by the structure or design of the community itself, providing them a sense of involvement for the projects. The solution could be changing the community’s structure or moving its platform where members can join translation in more organized way like in TraduXio(traduxio.org). Here we can't help but think of Benkler's words: “The growing evidence that individuals themselves are driven by diverse motivations, and that individuals are different from each other in the mix of motivational drivers that characterize them makes the problem of designing a well-functioning peer production system more complex.” (Yochai Benkler, 2016. Peer production and cooperation)
 
The legal side of French toutes et tous: separation of governance and management from property and contract
In the case of any novel or text that this community has worked on, the translation was permitted to be shared with the author's consent, like in TraduXio under certain open source licenses. However, the community has just begun discussions on how to deal with license issues related to their products. So far, for most of the texts produced, only the community has shared the results. As members participate in larger projects with TraduXio or other organizations, the legal aspects should be applied to this community’s contribution. There are also the following problems regarding open source licenses. According to The Legal Side of Open Source, “When you make creative work, that work is under exclusive copyright by default. Open source is an unusual circumstance, however, because the author expects that others will use, modify, and share the work. But because the legal default is still exclusive copyright, you need a license that explicitly states these permissions. ” (The Legal Side of Open Source. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://opensource.guide/legal/) Like just mentioned, It is critical to choose a license that is appropriate for the community’s project. In TraduXio’s case, it enables participants to define a license to ensure the right of each participant’s contribution. Its definition of a license is from the Creative commons model. Like TraduXio’s practices, French pour toutes et tous should also allow their participants to select their license for their creation. For now, these legal issues are only considered when contributors participate in a big project collaborating with TraduXio or other organizations. But also for the other small creative works that are worth to be protected, the community should allow them to be under the appropriate license based on their objective and use. It will promote more active participation without any concerns about intellectual rights. Now is the time for this community to understand license issues related, choose one of the open-source licenses, and apply them carefully for its contributions. Open source licenses will grant certain intellectual property rights to other users who are subject to the licenses, the right to edit, reproduce and create derivative works. 

The French pour toutes et tous is a new way of increasing synergy between language learners and producing a translation in different languages with the combined contributions of its members. We can definitely see its efforts to adapt peer production; endeavor to maintain decentralized and autonomous structures, motivated contributors, and legal standards to deal with issues. Of course, these efforts are not enough, and there are remaining problems about how to make this community more autonomous, motivated, efficiently deal with related legal issues. However, it is still significant in that it introduces many aspects of peer production. It is also remarkable that French toutes et tous tries to improve its intrinsic and extrinsic issues to adopt more open source ways. If this community follows an excellent example of successful peer production like Wikipedia or Traduxio, and deal with the difficulties mentioned above, it could be a desirable community. In other words, it can have a more significant impact on not only translation and language exchange between individuals, but also open education as a whole society.
