Peer Production
Peer Production Adaption Paper
Yi Wang
10/15/2019

“Peer production is the most significant organizational innovation that has emerged from Internet-mediated social practice. Organizationally, it combines three core characteristics: (a) decentralization of conception and execution of problems and solutions, (b) harnessing diverse motivations, and (c) separation of governance and management from property and contract.”. (Benkler, Peer production and cooperation, 2016) This paragraph provided a good definition of peer production, which helps us how to distinguish a company is whether category by peer production or not. With the continuously development of the Internet, more and more companies are established based on the network platform. Information sharing and online collaboration in public are no longer rare. There are many successful startup companies inspired by peer production when they just jumped into the business. Dianping is a typical example of the success of utilizing peer production initially.
Dianping was founded in Shanghai in April 2003 (Baidu, 2019), who is a leader in Chinese’s online platform for sharing local life information and online transactions and is the world's first independent third-party consumer review website. As a leading mobile Internet company, Dianping is not only used to provide users with services’ information such as merchant information, merchant reviews and merchant coupons, but also provided O2O (Online to Offline) transaction services such as group purchase, reservation, hotel and Online payment transaction platform.
As a CEO, Tao Zhang has the original intention of this website was to find a place to share food to other people who had the same hobby with him. He was interested in pursuing delicious food. Before he created Dianping website, he has written a book about sharing the comments he wrote for various delicious food in Shanghai. His initial goal was to share his comments and thoughts of gourmet to other people and let more and more people can achieve more information about different kinds of delicious food as well as enjoy the delightful of them. His book sold very well during that time, which encouraged him to create a wider platform to share his thoughts through the Internet. He was not satisfied with the limited information he had and the narrow group which means only him. He deeply understood if only relying on his own power, there was not enough to discover original and newfangled gourmet information. There has a preverb in China, “Many hands make light work.” He would like to absorb more fresh information from others and intended to create a communication platform for people who were in the same camp --- delicious food. Therefore, he created a website and he hoped it can be a cluster of gourmets that everyone in this aggregation could utilize this public platform to exchange their thoughts and comments. The more people came to contribute, the more shared information could service to all users. With progressively increased page views in the website, a large number of users joined in the website as members to share restaurants, take photos to comments, grade to restaurants, which was an excellent way to converging information and provide more convenience of other users better.
As an experienced user who has been using dianping.com and sharing information and comments online since the beginning, I can’t tell how the Dianping changed my life, but Dianping did make my life easier and far more interesting. When the first time used Dianping, I was totally attractive by various restaurant options I could choose. Based on other users’ comments and restaurants’ scores graded by customers, it was very simple to me to choose a favorite restaurant to decrease the probability of wrong chooses, as well as, tried popular food I had never have. In the same way, I would like to post the new restaurants and my comments online to share with others to make our community more convenience. Another Chinese preverb said: “A bit of fragrance clings to the hand that gives flowers”. A group people had the same motivation to share information to convenient others, would willing to contribute in different parts of community’s need. Not surprisingly, as the number of users increased, they were not satisfied only focus on restaurants. “The third-party review mode initiated by dianping.com has attracted more than 13 million netizens to actively participate in it. The users' comments on restaurants, leisure, entertainment and other life services have covered more than 500,000 businesses in more than 300 cities in China, and the information and coverage are constantly growing rapidly and updating independently” (airi, 2019). Obviously, peer production played an important role in operating Dianping.com.
In Dianping, there are almost all information came from the public and served back to the public. Users had the freedom to comment on the business, even can leave complaints and discontents. In addition, users can share their own consumption experience to optimize other users’ choices. It could summarize that peer production likes a collective wisdom. With the development of technology, Dianping became an interactive platform, such as users can public comments on mobile client via mobile Internet combined with the geographical position and netizens’ personalized consumer demand, provided the system at anywhere and any time during the catering, shopping, leisure and life service areas with business information, consumer preferences and consumption evaluations. The ability of publishing comments on the mobile client has become a necessary living tool for local users. Starting from Shanghai at the very beginning, it has expanded to many cities in China and developed into all walks of life from the specific to widely. The third-party review mode initiated and led by Dianping has become a new hot spot on the Internet.
I was so luckily conducted an interview with Zijing Yu in Wechat (Chinese’s popular network chat tool). After graduated from Fordham University in Business Analysis, she came back China and worked in Dianping as a product manager in the Beijing Branch. She said: “As an employee in Dianping, I am very proud of our company because our company’s slogan is “Discover the quality of life.” and we did follow our slogan to serve our users. We created a community to users to learn and contribute in order to mutual benefit and reciprocity. Whatever from restaurants at the beginning or after expanding to other area at this time, the power of peer production kept fuel the growth of the company.” (Yu, 2019)
Inspired by peer production, Dianping has been an unprecedented success. By the first quarter of 2015, Dianping has more than 200 million monthly active users and over 14 million merchants, which covered more than 2,500 cities in China and nearly 100 popular tourist countries and regions such as the United States, Japan and France. In addition to its Shanghai headquarters, Dianping has set up branches in more than 160 cities including Beijing, Guangzhou, Tianjin, Hangzhou and Nanjing. Dianping's monthly comprehensive page views (website and mobile devices) exceeded 15 billion, among that, the page views of mobile clients exceed 85%, and the cumulative number of independent users of mobile clients exceeds 200 million. (Baidu, 2019)
However, there are still many problems and frictions behind the success of Dianping. The disadvantages of peer production existed in collaboration. In Dianping website, users could leave their comments without responsibility. Most of comments are real thoughts from users, on the other hand, there are some users wrote vicious and mendacious comments to slander merchants due to some unreasonable purpose. During the interview with Zijing Yu, she claimed that, some business tried to hire people to write excellent comments for their business in order to earn a good reputation to attractive customers and make profits. Otherwise, some merchants left compliant comments in their competitors’ page to achieve unfair competition. (Yu, 2019). During in the process of gathering collaboration, the lack of fairness and authenticity due to it was open to the public and everyone in the community could participate and contribute. Even thought they had the same goal to share information to convenient others, in the process of sharing, there would be a lack of authenticity of information because of different purposes of users. When things have been profited, the motivation would not as pure as before. Therefore, separation of governance and management from property and contract is needed in peer production. Without such conflicts of own interests, authenticity and accuracy of information transmission can be better ensured so as better serve the community.
Not only to ensure the authenticity of the information, but also to protect that the user's personal privacy information has not been leaked. In July 2018, there were a media report that after users logged in Dianping.com with WeChat accounts, Dianping published user’s comments, on users’ relationship chain and friend bundled in WeChat through the Dianping.com, even WeChat address book, check in hotel information, restaurant location has been exposed on the website. (Xinjingbao, 2018). This phenomenon seriously damaged the personal privacy of users and even threatened their personal safety. Dianping didn’t take the responsibility of protecting user’s information on the public online platform and even they didn’t predict the information security challenges during the public collaboration. On July 9, 2018, Dianping released a statement on its official Weibo account about revealing users' whereabouts, saying that the original intention of creating a friend-link function was to let users share their wonderful experiences in life through Dianping. The design of these features has been found to be poorly considered in terms of user experience and would be rectified. Through the improvement of these defects, the company optimized their system in the continuous improvement  (Xinjingbao, 2018). In cooperation, there should be not only License restrictions, but also privacy protection restrictions. Because it is on a public platform, it is more important to pay attention to these details, so that users can be safe and assured in the community. 
With the development of economy and the expansion of market demand, Dianping has also started to add new components, such as group buying, coupon collections and other services to improve the interests of the company. Although the review part is quite consistent with peer production, however other parts, such as customer can purchase products from Dianping and get coupons from merchants, all of them indicated Dianping need make money from the non-peer production parts. But at the beginning, the company's slogan was to discover quality of life, hoping that dianping.com would always focus on the communication and aggregation of urban consumption experience. Therefore, they focused on implementing O2O business. Tao Zhang thought that Tencent's relatively open platform strategy attracted them. Meanwhile, Tencent's social networking chain and the O2O business of Dianping can generate the maximum multiplier effect, which is incomparable to Baidu and Alibaba. The cooperation with Tencent has expanded the user flow of dianping.com, greatly improved the usage of dianping.com and provided more convenient and fast services for users (airi, 2019). This makes dianping.com the most used information sharing and shopping entertainment website by Chinese users.
Dianping.com created after the CEO inspired by peer production for the general public, and later expanded to become a third-party platform for merchants and users. Continuing to innovate for the benefits of your company while serving the public. Although Dianping could not be called peer production in the later stage, the large number of user’s foundation and the sharing atmosphere created by peer production paved the way for Dianping's great success. In the analysis of this paper, in the early days of dianping.com, with the same motivation and the spirit of cooperation between users can be seen as the model of peer production. However, there still exist some stumbles on the road of peer production. Dianping has also grown in the process of adapting to peer production and learned how to deal with the issues in the collaboration.


Reference:

Yochai Benkler, Peer Production and Cooperation, Handbook on the Economics of the Internet, Cheltenham and Northampton, Edward Elgar.

Baidu, BD. (2019). Introduction of Dianping. Retrieved from URL: https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%A4%A7%E4%BC%97%E7%82%B9%E8%AF%84%E7%BD%91/3359289?fromtitle=%E5%A4%A7%E4%BC%97%E7%82%B9%E8%AF%84&fromid=6301639
Airi, AR. (2019). History of Dianping.com. Retrieved from URL: http://data.iresearch.cn/company/16024.shtml 

Xingjinghua. (2018, July 11). Leaked users' whereabouts, Dianping rectification. Retrieved from URL: http://www.xinhuanet.com/fortune/2018-07/11/c_1123107321.htm?baike
