Adaptation Paper
by Fangjiang Wu
With the rapid development of Internet technology, new media forms have gradually changed social relations and media environment. Especially after entering the Web2.0 era, the popularity and extensive use of social media and mobile clients provided a good platform for public voices, and gradually enhanced the public's news production capacity and interaction capabilities. The traditional news production model has undergone tremendous changes. The process of news production is no longer just the planning and participation of journalists. The online audience also plays an increasingly important role in it. In this new trend, many real-time content-oriented software adopts a ¡°peer production¡± approach to encourage users to participate in the content creation process. In China, a popular video platform, Pear Video, is a typical example.

¡°We define peer production as a form of open creation and sharing performed by groups online that set and execute goals in a decentralized manner.¡±[1] Based on this production method, Pear Video has developed its core functional area ¨C short video filming community. Everyone with basic photography electronics can be a short video maker. They use short video to record the material around them and edit them into video to share in different sections of the pear video platform. For example, ¡°Slightly Spicy Video¡± is long for fun, ¡°Cold Noodle¡± is a video of returning news of news people, ¡°Wind Video¡± is aimed at social issues, and ¡°Boss Broadcasting¡± is concerned about Managers in big company. There are also overseas concerns such as "Time Difference Video", "Digger", and entertainment such as "Civilian Squad leader" and "Glasses Video". Different community content consists entirely of short videos from short video makers from various locations. Most videos of Pear Video "control time between 30 seconds and 3 minutes", and strive to show the best content of the event. And some of the occasional documentaries are also in the 10-minute space. Pear Video's requirements for short video content are just two things: "Let your life be missed, your emotional story, and the anecdotes you want to share with you", "Content must be original and initial", simple interface and simple operation allows people of all ages to produce short video news content, which perfectly reflects the characteristics of the news "public participation".

In order to gain a deeper understanding of the entire peer production process, I contacted two shooters, the participants in the entire peer production, and had a brief talk with them in the live chat software. One of them is a maker with a lot of fans in food section, Wang Gang. The other one is a maker in life section, Liu Liang.

Wang Gang's video production in the food section began on March 8, 2017. At that time, he borrowed his brother's mobile phone and produced a graphic of the homemade dish "Panlong Eggplant", which was uploaded to the Pear Video platform. Wang Gang said, ¡°The first thing I just wanted was to 'show' a culinary skill,¡± because ¡°the food section was just established, and as a person with relevant professional background, I naturally want to contribute my force¡±, and this is also for him. It is an opportunity to learn from other cooking enthusiasts." At that time, he made a dish called "Panlong Eggplant". This is a dish that tests a cooker¡¯s cutting skill. The first time he chose this dish, he also had his own "careful machine". At that time, he thought of a special point to make people remember his dish. ¡°I didn't expect the hit rate to reach more than 9,000 soon¡±, he mentioned.

In Nov's article, he ¡°identified six motivational categories: Protective, Values, Career, Social, Understanding, Enhancement, Fun, Ideology.¡±[2] In this case, Wang Gang¡¯s motivation when he first got into this mode of production was more like ¡°Understanding¡± and "Fun". In fact, this is also the case for most other participants in peer production at the beginning. For example, another interviewee, Liu Liang, whose videos¡¯ subject is the Chinese rural life under normal conditions: catching fish, crabs, picking wild fruits, feeding chickens, feeding dogs, repairing fences, and of course the most central, bamboo rat farming - and cooking. At first, he simply wanted to "feel interesting and record the bits and pieces of his life." But then, more and more people began to like his videos. As for this point, Liu Liang also said that "it may be that everyone is too busy now, so naturally desired for this slow-paced rural life here." Interestingly, the motivation for peer production eventually tended to ¡°Career¡± and ¡°Values¡± for both of them. For Chef Wang Gang, many netizens will browse their food section and ask Wang Gang for ways to cook, which gives him the motivation to continue. For Liu Liang, he mentioned that ¡°his video can make everyone happy and can help everyone slow down in fast-paced urban life¡±, which is a great encouragement for him.

In peer production, "One benefit is the ability to build on others' work in a direct way, because contributors can directly view the architecture of the product (Kumar et al. 2011, MacCormack et al. 2006). In software, it Means that they can reuse code, economizing on skills, time, and cost (Hafliger et al. 2008). Contributors can have interacted directly with others, many of them strangers, to share and integrate knowledge and other resources."[3] In the case of a pear video platform, "Peer production successfully elicits contributions from diverse individuals with diverse motivations, a quality that continues to distinguish it from similar forms of collective intelligence. In such communities, the labor of many people is coordinated towards a shared outcome. "[4].

A comprehensive analysis of the various news modules in the pear video, we can see that his content is more oriented towards entertainment, science, life and geography. Due to the characteristics of news produced in parallel production and the length of short video lengths, there are not many serious news in Pear Video. But Pear Video encourages everyone to become a "photographer", become a producer of platform news content, and also plays an important role in promoting the production of short video news to the public. Such an initiative has undoubtedly made it successful. As a provider of the platform, Pear Video has now ¡°collected more than 3,100 short video makers, covering every region in the country and 520 cities abroad. With its ¡®short-source video production¡¯, Pear Video won the title of ¡®Top Ten Innovation Cases of 2017 China Application News Communication¡¯¡±[5]. For the participants in peer production, they have also achieved success in their careers. From the information I learned online, ¡°the ¡®Wang Gang Teaches Cooking Spicy Duck¡¯ on September 7th has a playback volume of 190W+, and the barrage covers the full screen, showing the popularity of the video. From the point of mention of the video playback volume and video volume of the ¡®Wang Gang¡¯ and ¡®Yaya¡¯ from the Bilibili website, the number of derivative videos is gradually increasing, and the video with the highest playback volume is concentrated in mid-September.¡±[6].

However, such a production model is also full of challenges. For the participants, they also have to face some restrictions. In The Limits of Peer Production, Dr. Daniel Kreiss denounced Benkler for ignoring the failure of participatory culture. First, Dniel is concerned about the impact of "Private Morality": "In the case of peer production, individual users gain more power than other users based on their contribution, although this seems fair, but the formation of a hierarchical power structure violates the open nature of peer production and creates a large barrier to entry."[7].

Take the pear video platform as an example. There are seven management dimensions in their system. One is certification management, which means you have to have a threshold. There is also verification management, with territorial management, professional, and labeling, including your data management, and grading. ¡°Our editorial department is fully involved in the production process of the filming. Pear Video is currently the only short video platform in China that also uses the three-review system. This has surprised many people because the three-trial system is a way of traditional media, but we have been using it.¡±[8]

As Liu Liang said, although they are all in the same section, "those who have more contributions and high popularity are often subject to fewer censorship restrictions." For makers like Liu Liang, ¡°Videos would be reviewed for about half a month, sometimes even because the content will be asked to be withdrawn¡±, but "those people (with more contributions) may only spend less than a week." Thus, it seems that although each sector of the platform promotes ¡°fair production,¡± intangible barriers have been formed between different levels of participants.

In addition, the problems in the parallel production mode are: ¡°Although the total number of users continues to increase, the number of active users is still decreasing; it is impossible to make secondary innovations in older projects in collaboration, resulting in a lack of accuracy as the collaboration ages."[9] A typical case is Wikipedia, "Since the birth of Wikipedia in early 2000, until the beginning of 2007, Wikipedia has experienced near-exponential growth. In the following 12 years, Wikipedia lost nearly 43% of its activity. Contributors, although the total number of Wikipedia users increased by more than 2 million during the same period. As the number of active users decreased, the proportion of men and women in the final community was seriously out of balance, and 9 out of every 10 active contributors were men."[9]

I didn't get the user data of the pear video platform, but from the two interviewees, it is not difficult to hear their concerns about the current situation. In the chat, Wang Gang mentioned that ¡°in fact, many people around me are beginning to quit slowly¡±, ¡°After all, there are only a few people who are popular¡±; Liu Liang also said that ¡°the big difficulty in making short videos lies in materials and innovation, at the beginning (users). There is also a sense of freshness, but in the back, in order to solve this problem, the shooters have to dig more material and inspiration to enrich the video content, but you know this (update short video) is not easy, especially to the back ". Sometimes these short video makers in the same section have to coordinate video time and theme in order to make a big ¡°patch work¡±. The editing itself is a boring job. The material needs to be viewed repeatedly. He wants to pick among the same kind of clips. Out of the best. "Grind your patience", the used materials, even if it is an empty lens, will not be used for the second time. Every video, every sentence must have subtitles, this is his insistence. After the video system is completed, he has to watch and check repeatedly to confirm that there is no big mistake in the content to upload. "Basically, I am the last person who sleeps in the whole family. All work ends, after 12:30."

Back to the news media itself, the way in which such audiences tap into news resources, and thus derive new issues may be too fragmented, and it is impossible to guide the audience to concentrate on information, which may lead to structural confusion and content fragmentation. In addition, crowdsourcing news is theoretically mitigated. The workload of the platform, but the vast amount of material provided by the user is subject to audit processing, so in the end, the human resource optimization configuration may not be fully realized. Finally, although the audience can spontaneously analyze some news events, the audience's family education background Different, there is a gap in the ability to identify information, and false information comes along. The applicability of news and the ability to provide true and reliable reports are also controversial.

References
[1] Benkler, Yochai, Aaron Shaw, and Benjamin Mako Hill. (2015) ¡°Peer Production: A Form of Collective Intelligence.¡± In Handbook of Collective Intelligence, edited by Thomas Malone and Michael Bernstein. MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
[2] Nov, O. (2007). What motivates Wikipedians? Communications of the ACM, 50(11), ACM New York, NY, USA.
[3] Levine, S. S., & Prietula, M. J. (2013). Open Collaboration for Innovation: Principles and Performance. Organization Science, 25(5), 1414¨C1433.
[4] Wikipedia, Peer Production. (2019). Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer_production
[5] Xiaojin Jiang, New Production Mode in The Future. (2018). Retrieved from https://new.qq.com/omn/20180201/20180201A17BFP.html
[6] Zijun Kong, PUGC: Production Analysis of Pear Video. (2018). Retrieved from http://www.fx361.com/page/2018/0828/4112233.shtml
[7] Kreiss, D., M. Finn, and F. Turner. (2010). ¡°The Limits of Peer Production: Some Reminders from Max Weber for the Network Society.¡± New Media & Society 13:243-259.
[8] Zijun Kong, PUGC: Production Analysis of Pear Video. (2018). Retrieved from http://www.fx361.com/page/2018/0828/4112233.shtml
[9] Xing Wang, Peer Production: voluntary contributions and rapid loss of users. (2019). Retrieved from http://www.cneo.com.cn/article-137941-1.html
