Name: Isha Kanani
EID: ik3624

Peer Production Adaptation Paper: Community Gardens

1.	Introduction
The community studied here was found as one of the examples on commons-based peer production (Benkler, 2006). Community Garden ia a land which is used by many people cooperatively to grow different fruits and vegetables, and the food grown there is consumed mostly by themselves. Many community gardens also hold sales of plants and vegetables to generate some revenue from it. The community discussed in the paper here is “Sunshine Community Gardens” located in Austin. 

2.	Sunshine Community Garden
This garden is located very near to the downtown Austin, providing accessibility to many people in Austin. The garden currently has over 300 plots. Each plot is rented by anyone who wants to grow food there. The rent for a full-size plot is $90 for a year, or $50 for six months. Since the garden has limited funding, the members buy whatever is needed for their food growth using their own money. It is a strictly organic garden, with the intention of not killing good insects. Started back in 1984, the continuous efforts of Garden members have helped maintain a good soil for gardening. The garden also has a plot for Texas School for Blind and Visually Impaired to help provide organic foods to TSVBI. The garden also has a chicken coop, and according to the members, maintaining the coop required higher efforts and more money than simply buying eggs.

        2.1 Members’ Responsibilities
Each member is required to keep their plots maintained. According to changing seasons, the members grow different fruits and vegetables organics. The members are responsible for the food growth in their plots, meaning they have to take care of required input to grow the food. The members buy all the necessary product from their own money. Apart from their plot, they are also required to contribute 8 hours per season to maintain the common plot land, and 1 hour to help gardening for Micah 6 of Austin, a non-profit organization that provides services to street dependent young adults.

2.2 Reaching out to community members
Sunshine Community Garden held a workday, and through Ila Falvey, one of the zone coordinator’s invitation, a garden visit was scheduled. A workday is when all the members get together to clear out their plot, due to the season change. Since the community garden also share a part of the land which is used by everyone, like driveways, and sidewalk plants, office area, etc., the members are required to help maintain the common land as well. On the workday, the members are asked to come together to help maintain the common land of the garden. Though the garden has over 300 plots, it only has around 50 active members. On the workday, around 20 of them showed up.

2.3 The demographics of community members
Most of the members interviewed were over 50 years old, with some of them being 70+ years. Many of the active members have been renting a plot for more than 10 years. These are “upper-middle class” people, being doctors, professors, and lawyers. The members of the community garden were well-educated people.

2.4	Motivations behind joining a community garden

Pauli: Pauli said she wanted to do the right thing, by joining a community garden.
Ila: Ila thinks she has a lot of time to spend, and gardening will help her spend the time in the right way. It is cheaper than going to a Psychiatrist is what she said.
Kristin: Kristin loves gardening, and she finds genuine involvement around community members.
Maria: Maria loves gardening, she has a house where she can grow things, but she finds a sense of belonging in the community garden.
Keetha: “You see people around, and you’re not lonely while gardening.”

These are some of the examples of why people wanted to join community gardening. It is evident that members of the community gardens were seeking a community of similar interests (Millington, Types of online communities.). The members here have a house with a land they can use for gardening, but for some of them the soil is not good enough. All the members have a feeling of belonging through the community garden, they can come to the garden, and spend time with each other, discussing their topic of interest, gardening. The motivation here is the interest since they like gardening (Shah, 2006).


2.5 Hierarchy
The garden is divided into 10 different zones, and each zone has a zone coordinator. The zone coordinator has to make sure that the plots in their zone are well maintained. If not, they have to reach out to the plot renters and ask them to get it maintained. 

Apart from the zone members, above them, the garden also has a board consisting of President, Vice-President, and a few directors. The garden has different people assigned to manage weekly newsletter, plant sale, plot assignment, compost coordination, and many more.

2.6 Coordination
Since it is a commons based peer production, the plot renters might not coordinate well with their zone coordinators. According to the interviews, many people have not maintained their plot in the past, and then left the Gardens. This lead to the other active members having to clean out the rented plot, before it can be assigned a new renter.

Since each member has to complete community hours, they are fined if they do not complete the hours per season. The hierarchy of president, directors, and zone coordinators result into a structured coordination. Since the members at the garden feel sense of belonging, they also plan out a few fun events during a year, where all the members get together outside of the the garden for some fun activities.

2.7 Plant Sale
Sunshine Community Gardens holds it’s annual spring benefit plant sale. This year in March, the community garden sold more than 50,000 plants for $2 each. The garden had more than 120 varieties of tamotoes, and it also had around 80 different types of peppers, eggplants, and tomatillos. Apart from vegetables, the garden annual sale also offered different herbs and ornamentals. 

2.8 Communication Platforms
The community garden members tried to maintain a chat group for members, but since most of the members are old aged and not comfortable with a chat group, the group no longer exists. The garden has four board meetings each year, where all the board members communicate the desired outcomes.  The active way of communication right now is weekly newsletter, a news letter is an email which is sent out to all the community members every week. The community members feel comfortable with the system, as they have to read the main once a week. And if they are interested, they can reply back to it. The members like getting weekly updates of the upcoming events and tasks rather than an active communication back and forth.

Kay, who manages the plot assignment, has an excel file on her private computer system, that has a log of plot renters over the years. The garden also tries to maintain a Facebook and Instagram page, to put their event updates to people. The community garden also maintains a website, with many useful information and newsletters.

3.	Community Garden as a Peer Production Community
A commons based peer production community is a socioeconomic community where people come together to contribute to some production. It does not follow a strict hierarchical structure like the organization follows. However, since the coordination is still required in a commons based community, there is some kind of structure of authorities maintained. While an online open source community might not have anything particular in mind to return back to the contributors, the commons based community does keep the financial benefit in mind for the contributors.

Levine mentions how in open collaboration, people produce some goods or services of economic value (Levine, 2013). Levine mentions how everyone is allowed to contribute reduce, and use someone else’s production. From the previous explanation, it can be seen that a community garden does follow under the category of a commons based peer production. People come together to grow different kinds of food, where food is considered as a product. The community garden also does not have a strict organization-like hierarchical structure. Instead, the community garden studied here in the essay has a few board members, zone coordinators, and a few people taking small assignments for management. The financial benefit of the members are kept in mind, since the members do not have to buy the plot of the land, they only have to rent the plot. The members get the first access to the produced food, and the other food is not available for sale. Instead, the members can give away the food they produce to someone or some organization.

The community garden also aims to benefit the people in some way, just the way an open-source production aims. The Sunshine community garden supports Texas School for Blind and Visually Impaired and Micah 6 with food production. 

4.	Conflicts with Online Open-Source Communities
One of the major difference between communities found online and community gardens is licensing. The way open-source peer production follows some kind of licensing, the community garden does not follow licensing in the same manner. The guidelines to achieve a community garden permit might be different in all regions. For Austin, one has to apply for the permit through Sustainable Urban Agriculture & Community Garden program. While the online copyright licenses have the guidelines assigned (Kelty, 2008), The guidelines for community garden permit is not standard. 

While an online peer production community can be shared by everyone globally, the demographic constraint is present in the offline communities. The community garden is only feasible to the people living in Austin area. While anyone is allowed to use the community garden, it is not possible for someone in any place other than Austin to rent a plot in Sunshine community gardens and maintain it regularly.

While many communities do not fine their members for not completing the community work, it is a normal practice is community garden to charge a fine if someone is unable to complete their community work hours each season. However, this does not seem to be an efficient way to make sure that members are contributing. According to the community garden members, though they have more than 300 plots, resulting into more than 300 registered members, only 50 of them are active. On the workday where everyone is supposed to come and contribute to the common land maintenance, they were around 20 people who showed up. Loose coordination is one of the ways of working in peer production community, however, in offline communities, the lack of coordination might lead to a higher loss than an online working community. The plot which is not maintained regularly ends up ruining the soil, and if not cleared out, also affects the soil quality of neighboring plots.


5.	Technological Difference
The technologies used in the classroom studies and the ones used in the community garden studies are very different. One of the major reason is lack of adaptation of recent technologies by older members. The Sunshine members found it difficult to even operate a chat group, it is difficult to expect them to use a common server or working repository to maintain the updates. The requirements of technologies are also different in both the cases. In community garden case, one needs just a few documents to maintain the renters history, and a social media account and a website to provide updates to people around the world.


References:

Benkler, Y. (2006). The wealth of networks: How social production transforms markets and freedom. Yale University Press.

Richard Millington. Types of online communities.

Shah, S. K. (2006). Motivation, governance, and the viability of hybrid forms in open source software development. Management Science, 52(7), 1000–1014.


Levine, S. S., & Prietula, M. J. (2013). Open Collaboration for Innovation: Principles and Performance. Organization Science, 25(5), 1414–1433.

Chapter “Writing Copyright Licenses” of Kelty, C. M. (2008). Two Bits: The Cultural Significance of Free Software. Durham: Duke University Press Books.




