Lucy Flamm
Dr. Howison
Autumn 2019 
Peer Production 

OpenAgriculture: Interrogating the Peer Production 
Characteristics of an Institutionally-Hosted Initiative
 
Introduction

The paper at hand seeks to interrogate the extent to which the Open Agriculture Initiative (OpenAg) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) embodies the characteristics of a peer production project. The project remains housed at the prestigious university Media Lab — a self proclaimed antidisciplinary conglomerate of research endeavors. Since 2013, OpenAg has sought to develop a specialized growing chamber enabling one to control and monitor facets of climate, energy, and plant growth [1]. With open source code and hardware, the Personal Food Computer project aims to democratize personalized agricultural production and harvest superior produce through crafting the ideal environment. The project offers an instance of an institutionally-hosted platform dedicated to collaboration and innovation adhering to a centralized model of governance and authority. 

Beginning with historical contextualization, this analysis then turns to defining the community of users and considering notions of decentralization, diverse motivations, and separation of governance from contract. Lastly, the paper examines collaboration infrastructure through acknowledging the relationship between prescribed tasks, corporate ties, and capitalism in this peer production model. 


History and Context

The origin story of OpenAg centers upon the vision of one man: Caleb Harper. As a principal research scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he founded the CityFARM research group at the university’s now-prestigious media lab. From 2013 to 2015 a cohort of paid researchers under the leadership of Harper interrogated the junctions of food production, climate change, and technology. Specifically, the team sought to work with hydroponic and aeroponic plant-cultivation techniques. In doing so, they sought to brainstorm a solution targeting environmental pollutants caused by the movement of agricultural goods within a country or between countries -- essentially, the notion of notion of “grow it there and eat it here”[2]. The context of climate change and rapidly shifting agricultural environs remained central to the research. The first few years generated a growing methodology which, as detailed on the archived website, “reduces water consumption by 90 percent, eliminates chemical pesticides, and reduces embodied energy in produce by a factor of four” [3]. With this methodology in mind, the project transformed from a research lab to an endowed initiative in 2015.

Now known as the Open Agriculture Initiative (OpenAg), the scope evolved from researching to producing. The team identified an opportunity to employ their findings to develop a tabletop-sized environment for agricultural production: the Personal Food Computer. A team of paid engineers at MIT’s media lab wrote the original code for the Personal Food Computer 1.0 -- a “controlled environment agricultural technology platform that uses robotic systems to control and monitor climate, energy, and plant growth inside of a specialized growing chamber” [4]. As described by an interviewed participant of the project, “People could change the growing environments to be whatever they want. The data that is collected is correlated to the growing environment. As everyone collects data, there becomes an open source database of what environments work well with the data automatically collected through the OS.” Consequently, despite geographic locale, Food Computer users could artificially create an environment and at any moment alter variables including light and hydration. 

While the OpenAg Initiative privately wrote the code for the Personal Food Computer, both the code and detailed hardware plans for the project are open source. Documents detail recommended materials, additional optional sensor components, and chassis design files. Anyone can utilize both software and hardware specifications, but the original code is licensed in GPL 3.0. Consequently, individuals and utilize and tinker to their specific modifications or desires. One can simply download the open hardware plans with the peer production element of OpenAg stemming from the creation of a platform for connection and collaboration. They strive to hone the physical specifications of the grow chamber and data concerning agricultural environs. Information is split into four categories: food computer plans, growing (recipes, resources), community and resources (FAQs and the OpenAg Community Forum), and the project Wiki. Users exchange their modified hardware specifications on recommended materials and provide support to one another in the process of both building and growing. 
 
Defining the Community

The Personal Food Computer initiative appears to have adapted the core values of a community of interest. In his evaluation of the different types of online communities, Richard Millington highlights how all communities might “technically” constitute a community of interest, the term remains designated for collectivities that “people mentally enjoy” while working to “facilitate interactions that both increase their knowledge (and thus passion for the topic, and share their love of the topic.” The online community reflects an innate drive to better understand, build, and design agricultural hardware. Close analysis of the vast user forum details the nature of the collective responding to questions and concerns regarding physical material suggestions, sensor recommendations, and techniques for running recipes and storing data [5]. Millington contends communities of interest provide a space for the “geekiest discussions.” There can be no coincidence, then, that users refer to each other as “nerd farmers.” In contrast, those employed by OpenAg reflect a network of circumstance: their participation results from contractually bound employment at the MIT Media Lab. 
 
Modified Peer Production

The organizational form of the OpenAg initiative becomes imperative to considering function. Close analysis reveals OpenAg to constitute a modified peer production community: firm-hosted peer production. In his work on peer production and collaboration, the scholar Yochai Benkler contends the term peer production can be applied to collaborative networks operating with decentralized execution, participation of individuals with diverse motivations, and lack of contractual obligation amongst participants [6]. These three facets are imperative to Benkler’s definition of a peer production project. Consequently, OpenAg provides a peer production community with varying degrees of adherence to the normative model identified by Benkler. 

The Personal Food Computer project of the MIT Media Lab does not offer an entirely decentralized operational model. In Benkler’s framework, “decentralized groups [are] organized principally by neither price signals nor organizational hierarchy” [7]. With a leadership team of employees possessing power over executive decision making, there is a clear status quo thus negating the central facet of Benkler’s peer production model. With a name like OpenAg, the project sells itself as an open source peer-production project. In actuality, the organizational methods perhaps better reflect crowdsourcing with the leadership team preconceiving the tasks of building a Personal Food Computer, working on special “Climate Recipes” and sharing data preconceived by the leadership team. However, smaller tasks such as deciding to modify hardware specifications or tinkering with growth chamber sensors is not preconceived nor mandatory. 

Within the OpenAg community, participants are driven by the “diverse motivations” Benkler cites as imperative to peer production [8]. While the Personal Food Computer reflects the aim of building an agricultural chamber with technological components, the community of users and participants vary in their incentives. Out of the eight motivational categories identified by Oded Nov in his study of Wikipedia contributors, posts written by users on the OpenAg forum display clear expressions of “fun,” “values,” and “understanding” [9]. Users express their pleasure from the simple act of building and sharing as they work on their physical Personal Food Computer and tinker and share their findings concerning hardware and growth. Others express a notion of values in their statements concerning the projects message, climate change, and how it can help others in the world. This analysis of users aligns with the sentiment expressed in an interview with a participant. In his view, the community reflects an “educated working class motivated by the value of open source.” Lastly, individuals express a distinct goal of expanding their own knowledge concerning the subject and gaining a new understanding of agricultural technology. 

The contention that the OpenAg Initiative represents institutional-hosted peer production is most apparent in examining facets of governance and management. Institutional-hosted peer production mirrors Benkler’s notion of firm-hosted peer production except a university rather than a firm is the entity involved. While OpenAg has a contracted leadership team (i.e. Caleb Harper et. al.), there is no contractual obligation of participants in the community. Furthermore, Benkler argues that in firm-hosted peer production communities there must be evidence of “firm control over the infrastructure or platform used to host and coordinate the peer production effort” [10]. Authoritative information stems from the MIT Media Lab website where copies of code and hardware plans are stored. Furthermore, the wiki forum dedicated to and utilized by the community is housed on MIT’s server. Consequently, MIT and the leadership team possesses executive authority over displayed content and all information exchanged on the forum. 
 
Governance, Roles, Hierarchies, and Relationships

Where the OpenAg Initiative thrives is in adapting the successes of other peer production models and establishing clear governance models for users. As written in a blog post by Ross Gardler and Gabriel Hanganu, clear governance models allow “potential contributors to understand how they should engage with the project, what is expected of them.” While developing open hardware for individual construction, the website emphasizes that anyone can contribute. Contribution is clearly identified as building a food computer for the sake of crafting, modifying, sharing, and upgrading over time while generating phenotypic expression data. Additionally, the project clearly adopted the suggested model of describing “the processes for communicating and sharing within the project team and the community” [11]. Nerdfarmers are encouraged to share their findings on the Forum and help guide towards developing the best software and hardware specifications for a Personal Food Computer. Beyond a small tier of institutionally contracted leaders, the users represent a community of “individuals who come together voluntarily to produce a shared outcome” [12].

While there are arguably limits to user participation, within the online community the roles of those contributing back to the project appear to be self-assigned. This is evidenced when analyzing user forums and considering the role of translation. All of the content concerning source code and hardware plans are drafted in English. For example, in 2016 a user named “emilio” expressed his admiration for the initiative and the Personal Food Computer Project. Identifying that there was little information in Spanish, he worked to translate articles from the OpenAg Wikipedia page into Spanish for Wikipedia. Another user, “aguadopd,” then commented expressing his leadership on another branch of the forum developing community documentation in other languages. As highlighted in theories of Karl Fogel in his work on free software project management, translators and also users can be a different demographic from developers [13]. In this instance, English-speaking Spanish users sought to lead a self-conceived initiative to translate resources into their native language. 

Peer production literature elucidates on the role of leadership teams and the notion of a benevolent dictator. As an example of institutionally-hosted peer production, there is a closed team with executive decision made in a closed fashion. It is interesting that while Gardler and Hanganu hypothesize that as a project expands and the participating community grows decision making processes may need to evolve and adjust. However, it appears that in the past six years the model has remained the same with the leadership team making executive decisions. As Director of OpenAg since its beginnings as an informal technology lab, Caleb Harper remains the cult figurehead. 

It remains important to consider that the term peer production projects does not equate complete exclusion of corporate ties. The work of OpenAg has drawn the attention of large agricultural companies in a manner appearing to mirror IBM’s investment in Linux. In Wikinomics, Don Tapscott traces the arc of the company’s fiscal contributions to the platform and how they used Linux for their own development. Currently, IBM contributes approximately $100 million per annum towards Linux. In 2016, the Italian company Ferrero -- producer of Ferrero Rocher candy and Nutella spread -- “joined” the MIT Media Lab’s OpenAg program [14]. The company’s products are primarily composed of hazelnuts and climate change has thoroughly damaged available environs for their production. Consequently, Ferrero became one of the more than 80 “members” of the MIT Media Lab which, according to an investigative journalism piece by the Wall Street Journal, “charges companies at least $250,000 a year to collaborate on research” [15]. Unlike the self-assigned tasks of the majority of open source collaborations, such corporate investments drive the direction of the general OpenAg Initiative. 

Following the success of the Personal Food Computer design and exponential growth of the nerd farmer community, OpenAg has focused on developing a Food Server. According to the interviewed user, the servers are “controlled environment shipping containers” which utilize the software, hardware recommendations, and growth-environ results honed through the Personal Food Computer project. In his opinion, a “a big reason for [the] Ferraro investment was finding new growing locations as the world warms.” Tapscott suggests in Wikinomics that “without open source, you’d have just a set of monopolies: effectively, economic feudalism” [16]. This is evidenced in the history of Mozilla [17]. Perhaps OpenAg serves to negate such a claim. While open source fueled the Personal Food Computer movement, it generated promising results which corporations such as Ferrero, Target, and India Cotton then seek to exploit to further enhance their own monopolies. 

Conclusion

Close analysis of the development of the Personal Food Computer project of the OpenAg Initiative at MIT provides insight to the functionality of peer production models in institutional environs. While utilizing geographically and motivationally diverse users, the project employs a firmly hierarchical model. A prescribed chronology of involvement focuses on the building of a personal food computer, growing, and cycling data and additional hardware recommendations back to the community. The way in which such tasks are executed are up to the user. As an agricultural scientist, the interviewed user expressed that he “never understood why they were trying to sell to the average person. I guess it was a respectable motive. Just not economical or realistic.” Perhaps then that is part of the beauty of peer production models in their normative or modified forms. Now, even the curious can participate in networks of innovative development. Whether or not such initiatives are successful in achieving their goals -- in this instance, the development of a Personal Food Computer -- requires further scholarly analysis. 



Citations 

[1] “faq [OpenAg].” OpenAg. MIT Media Lab, October 19, 2018. Accessed October 14, 2019. https://wiki.openag.media.mit.edu/faq. 

[2] “Overview: CityFARM.” MIT Media Lab. Accessed October 14, 2019. https://www.media.mit.edu/projects/cityfarm/overview/.

[3] Ibid. 

[4] “faq [OpenAg].” OpenAg. MIT Media Lab, October 19, 2018. Accessed October 14, 2019. https://wiki.openag.media.mit.edu/faq. 

[5] “Considering Alternatives to the Raspberry Pi and Arduino.” OpenAg. MIT Media Lab. May 2017. Accessed October 14, 2019. https://forum.openag.media.mit.edu/t/considering-alternatives-to-the-raspberry-pi-and-arduino/1878.

[6] Benkler, Y. Peer Production and Cooperation, forthcoming in J. M. Bauer & M. Latzer (eds.), Handbook on the Economics of the Internet, Cheltenham and Northampton, Edward Elgar. 1. 

[7] Ibid. 

[8] Benkler, Y. Peer Production and Cooperation, forthcoming in J. M. Bauer & M. Latzer (eds.), Handbook on the Economics of the Internet, Cheltenham and Northampton, Edward Elgar. 16. 

[9] Nov, O. “What Motivates Wikipedians?” Communications of the ACM 50, no. 11 (2007): 1.

[10] Benkler, Y. Peer Production and Cooperation, forthcoming in J. M. Bauer & M. Latzer (eds.), Handbook on the Economics of the Internet, Cheltenham and Northampton, Edward Elgar. 5.

[11] Gardler, Ross and Gabriel Hanganu. “OSS Watch Governance Models” OSS Watch. February 15, 2010. Accessed October 14, 2019. http://oss-watch.ac.uk/resources/governancemodels/.

[12] Tapscott, Don. Wikinomics: How mass collaboration changes everything. (New York: Portfolio, 2006), 67. 

[13] Fogel, Karl Franz. Producing Open Source Software: How to run a successful free software project. (Orange Grove Books, 2009), N.p.

[12] Tapscott, Don. Wikinomics: How mass collaboration changes everything. (New York: Portfolio, 2006), 67. 

[13] Tapscott, Don. Wikinomics: How mass collaboration changes everything. (New York: Portfolio, 2006), 77.

[14] “Advisors and Sponsors.” OpenAg. MIT Media Lab.  Accessed October 14, 2019. https://www.media.mit.edu/posts/openag-advisors-and-sponsors/.

[15] Kahn, Howie. “Perfecting Crops with AI-Powered Indoor Farms.” Wall Street Journal. October 17, 2018. https://www.wsj.com/articles/perfecting-crops-with-ai-powered-indoor-farms-1539787501.

[16] Tapscott, Don. Wikinomics: How mass collaboration changes everything. (New York: Portfolio, 2006), 92.

[17] Hamerly, Jim et. al. “Freeing the Source.” Accessed October 14, 2019. https://www.oreilly.com/openbook/opensources/book/netrev.html.



