　　Open hardware refers to computers and electronic hardware designed in the same way as free and open source software. Open source hardware begins to open source to areas other than software, which is part of the open source culture. Open source hardware keeps the definition of open source software code, including using open source license agreements on software, circuit schematics, material lists, design drawings, etc. and licensing in an open source manner. In the past, DIY did not have a clear authorization when shared, however, open source hardware apples GPL, CC and other protocol specifications in the open source software to the field of hardware sharing now. ("Open Hardware", 2018)
　　Among the open source hardware, the birth of Arduino can be described as a milestone in the history of open source hardware development. “Arduino is a convenient, flexible, easy-to-use open source electronic prototype platform, including hardware (Arduino boards in various models) and software (Arduino IDE). It was developed by a European development team in the winter of 2005. It is built on an open original code simple I/O interface and it has the Processing/Wiring development environment which can use Java and C-language.” ("Arduino", 2019) There are two main parts: the hardware section is the Arduino board that can be used to make circuit connections, and the other is the Arduino IDE, the program development environment in your computer. If you write the program code in the IDE and upload the program to the Arduino board, finally, the program will tell the Arduino board what to do next. Arduino can sense the environment through a variety of sensors, and by controlling lights, motors and other devices to influence and give feedback to the environment. People can program on the micro-controller of the board in Arduino's programming language, what’s more, the code can be compiled into a binary file and burned into the micro-controller.
　　Although Arduino is not a peer production product, it is inspired by peer production and there are some similarities between them.
　　At first, in peer production mode, producers participate in production completely voluntarily from a variety of goals. Participates in Arduino has diverse purposes as well. For example, some people may produce replicas of circuit boards or even redesign circuit boards to understand the principles behind them, while others may manufacture boards to make money. However, whatever their purposes are, they all participate in production voluntarily. Hence, the diverse motivations of producers of Arduino are almost the same with the “diverse pro-social motivations” (Benkler, 2009) on peer production.
　　Second, all peer production projects are “separation of governance from property and contract” (Benkler, 2009), which is another important character of peer production. This is exactly one of the best features of Arduino, too, since Arduino allows people use all its freely. No one will care about why you design Arduino boards and how you use them finally, which means there is no organization coordinate production and no strict rules to retrain users. Thus, Arduino projects, to some degree, are out of governance. This is the second similarity between Arduino and peer production.
　　Third, because copyright law can regulate open source software, but it is difficult to be used on hardware, Arduino, in order to maintain the open source concept of the design, decided to adopt Creative Commons license. “Creative Commons is a license like GPL license that protects open copyright practices.” ("Arduino", 2019) With Creative Commons' permission, anyone can produce replicas of circuit boards and to redesign and even sell copies of the original design. You don't have to pay royalties or even get permission from the Arduino team. Licenses for peer production exactly include Creative Commons license. So, Arduino meets one of the requirements for the peer production product.
　　Furthermore, the collaboration ways of peer production and Arduino production is similar. “Peer production is a way of producing goods and services that relies on self-organizing groups of individuals. In such communities, the labor of a large number of people is coordinated towards a shared outcome typically through distributed networks without a formal, hierarchical structure.” ("Peer-Production", 2019) So does Arduino. Production of Arduino are based on self-organization. In other words, persons in an Arduino community work together rely on loosely collaboration. According to Ming He’s words, who once participated in a Arduino community, he and his team members communicate through internet and actually there are no specific manager for this project. All members choose a task based on their interest and everyone is equal in this team. (M. He, personal communication, Oct 14, 2019) Another important point is that both peer production and Arduino are based on mass collaboration. Because the purpose of them is the same, to create better product from large amount of human. Therefore, the collaboration infrastructures of them share something in common.
　　Another significant point they have in common is that both are open. To be specific, everyone can take part in peer production and Arduino. In the conventional organizations, companies will apply for a patent or copyright after production in case competitors may copy their design. However, everyone is welcome to join production in peer production and open hardware like Arduino. Ming said that Arduino community is extraordinarily kind to person whoever wants to replicate. “Arduino boards’ design and Arduino's hardware schematics, circuit diagrams, IDE software, and core library files are all open source.” (M. He, personal communication, Oct 14, 2019) In addition, their results are open as well. Arduino requests the latest design to be licensed in the same or similar Creative Commons license, if the board is modified. So, the new version of the Arduino board is also free and open. Peer production ensures its result is universally available, too. Hence, peer production and Arduino share the key characteristic: open.
　　Besides, through either peer production or open hardware, the cost of production can be greatly reduced. For peer production, the labor cost is almost free, since almost all people participate peer production voluntarily.  For open hardware, people don’t need pay attention to design because the design is already open to the world. From the conversation with Ming He, I know the production process better. He replicated Arduino boards almost without thinking. He only need to configure the development environment by downloading the installation package to install the Arduino IDE, follow the hardware design to get the copy of Arduino board, write the code, which can be gotten on Arduino’s website as well, and upload it to the board through the data line. Finally, he can operate the board via code. (M. He, personal communication, Oct 14, 2019) In this way, the time cost of production will be sharply deducted. Through the example of Ming He, we can directly understand why open source save people’s time greatly. In conclude, both peer production and open hardware incredibly save production cost.
　　Though open hardware and peer production projects have lots of similarities, there are stark differences.
　　First of all, open hardware provides all information needed to replicate the hardware, while allowing for innovation and redesigning. However, peer production community just provide a platform for everyone to work together to have a thing done. (Bauwens, 2008) Take Wikipedia for example, a group of people create a new entry of a famous actor, some people write basic information, some write the background of the actor, and others collect all data needed. Another group of people create a second entry of a city, some of them write its history, some write its economy, some write the geography and so on. Although these two group don’t do the same thing, their tasks are the same: they must create the entry and complete it, without innovation. Consequently, an essential distinction between peer production and open hardware is open hardware allows people to redesign and innovate the production, but peer production just allows people to collaborate in order to have a thing done without effort to invention. 
　　Moreover, from the similarity told above, we know that open hardware and peer production can reduce production cost. However, there is still difference between their cost. Specifically, almost most of peer production projects are free. People don’t need to invest money into it. However, open hardware comes with higher cost. Take Arduino for an example, people have to buy materials like electronic hardware to replicate the board. As a result, open hardware, compared with peer production, has higher production cost.
　　From what mentioned above, it is safe to conclude that the open hardware such as Arduino is inspired by peer production for it has so many similarities with peer production. Nevertheless, it is not peer production due to the diverse production costs and their different essences.
　　Actually, the development of open hardware is not plain sailing. it faces lots of challenge. Unlike open software, “hardware developers are fewer because requiring physical realization can be deterring.” (Gagan, Tony, Vinay & Karthikeyan, 2016) Most companies and persons failed to see the value of open hardware. But the large population is the key to develop open hardware. The first challenge faced by open hardware is the lack of attention from public, which definitively limits its development.
　　Second, compared with other open source product and peer production projects, open hardware like Arduino is not easily available. During production, people need to collect lots of hardware, which may not be easily found. As a result, these hard-to-find materials, without doubt, limit its further proliferation.
　　The third main challenge for open hardware is the high reproduction cost. Almost all other open source and peer production projects are able to be produced online without any fee. However, the materials are necessary for open hardware production. This directly increase its cost, resulting in restraining its development.
　　Though open hardware has a lot of challenges, more and more industries and skilled people come to realize its potential. They begin to invest in it. So, I believe that open hardware will grow rapidly in the future.
　　Another point that’s worth discussing is the cooperation model in open hardware community. It is different from the traditional cooperation way. In our usual work and study, we commonly cooperate with people we are familiar with and we can talk face to face. More importantly, we know each other better. For example, we know every member’s strength and weakness. So, we can assign the task according to everyone’s characteristic. In addition, all members have the same goal which is to complete the group project perfectly. However, the collaboration infrastructure in open hardware is totally different. “I would even go so far as to say the vast majority of group members — are not in it only for the paycheck. There is something more to it than that.” (Fogel, 2009) Hence, I think it’s necessary to analyze the collaboration infrastructure in open hardware.
　　First, everyone is equal in the community, which means no autarchy in the team. Everyone's support and opposition will be respected. No one's going to force them to complete the job.
　　Second, similar to peer production community, the open hardware community is “loosely organized” (Benkler, 2009). The mobility rate of the community is extremely high due to the open community and no strict rules. To be specific, the members can leave the team easily and new members can join in easily as well.
　　Third, cooperation is transparent. During the whole production process, everyone can see what others have done. For example, when we are asked to summarize one reading as a group and are not allowed to talk with each other, we can open a Google doc. During this assignment, we can see through the file what others have done so far and which part they have taken even we don’t communicate with each other.
　　Fourth, the results are open. They belong to the public, not single person. Take Arduino for an example, it requires all the product to be licensed under Common Creative. Thus, the production of collaboration is open to the world, different to results in conventional collaboration, which may belong to the firm or only the group.
　　To put it in a nutshell, from the comparison between peer production and open hardware, it is obvious that open hardware is inspired by peer production. From the analysis of Arduino and the interview with Ming He, the similarity and differences between peer production projects and open hardware like Arduino becomes more understandable. From the study of challenge faced by open hardware, the difficulties in the past and potentials in the future of open hardware get clear. Finally, from the research of collaboration structure of open hardware, we know better about the characteristics of open hardware community. 
　　





References:
Arduino. (2019, September 24). Retrieved October 14, 2019, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arduino.
Bauwens, M. (2008, November 4). The difference between peer production and open source. Retrieved October 15, 2019, from https://blog.p2pfoundation.net/the-difference-between-peer-production-and-open-source/2008/11/16.
Fogel, K. F. (2009). Producing open source software: how to run a successful free software project. Place of publication not identified: Orange Grove Books.
Open Hardware. (n.d.). Retrieved October 15, 2019, from https://baike.baidu.com/item/开源硬件/2605144?fr=aladdin.
Open-source Hardware: Opportunities and Challenges. (2016). Retrieved October 15, 2019, from http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~vinay/pubs/osh-2016.pdf.
Peer-Production. (2019, September 24). Retrieved from https://systemsinnovation.io/peer-production/?print-posts=pdf.
Y. Benkler, Peer Production and Cooperation forthcoming in forthcoming in J. M. Bauer & M. Latzer (eds.). Retrieved from http://www.benkler.org/Peer production and cooperation 09.pdf.

