Peer Production Adaptation Paper
Joohee Oh


“French pour toutes et tous” community and how it works

What is French pour toutes et tous
The French pour toutes et tous (French for all) is a worldwide community of French learners established on Facebook in 2014. This community aims to create a synergy between learners of French as a foreign language and Francophones who want to learn one or more foreign languages. These foreign languages include Korean, Chinese, Japanese Vietnamese, English, Spanish, Arabic, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Turkish, etc. This community is open to anyone who wants to learn these languages. 

How it works: focusing on its collaboration infrastructure and technologies
People in this community upload any material they are interested in, such as videos, articles, extracts of comics, songs, movies, or television series, written or spoken in their mother tongue or French. They try to translate the contents or read them aloud in French if the material was written or spoken in their mother tongue. They would do the same thing in their mother tongue if the material was initially written and spoken in French. Then texts or sound sources written or spoken in two languages will be then produced, after editing, adding, or deleting by other members who can speak these languages used fluently. In most cases, grammatical issues and misunderstanding regarding cultural aspects are re-translated, and those corrected texts are shared with others. This community has people in charge of each language, as well. These are professors, teachers, or translators of each language that is commonly used in this community. They improve the quality of posts by providing professional opinions on the disputed parts of the translation. Nevertheless, those specialists are not the person who owns particular tasks alone. They are just coordinators to make the group work more efficiently and effectively. 

At first, people mainly used short articles or videos talking about current issues on Facebook. The small amount of interesting materials talking on Facebook allowed many people to modify the translation quickly and easily with sharing their opinions. However, it was challenging to work on a big project on Facebook because it is not an appropriate platform to conduct group work. People have to give and receive opinions to participate in these group projects, the changes they made should be recorded in orderly, but they cannot do on Facebook. Due to the lack of proper places where people can work together in an organized manner, members of this community are starting to talk about building a new structure or moving their platform to actively use Github for their collaboration. Even lately, the members in this community has worked together with other organizations for a translation. The professor who proposed and founded this community brought a big project to this community and collected members to do this project together. They translated a Korean novel into French with colleagues and students in a University in France, and another artifact with French high school students. In these projects, they worked on an opensource platform traduxio.org using the Github, or on other platforms like EDMODO or Google docs to increase efficiency. 

These days it starts to plan out participating in other activities, especially related to open education. The idea is to read and record the community’s selected posts aloud in each language and provide the sound source to foreign language learners through websites like https://www.audio-lingua.eu/?lang=fr or http://www.elllo.org/. The group also comes up with ideas of podcasting with this sound source or providing their sound source and scripts to the Youtube education channels like https://www.youtube.com/user/talktomeinkorean.

“French pour toutes et tous” as an effort to adapt “Peer production” and challenges for that

What are key features of peer production?
According to Yochai Benkler, “Peer production combines three core characteristics: (a) decentralization of conception and execution of problems and solutions, (b) harnessing diverse motivations, and (c) separation of governance and management from property and contract.” (Yochai Benkler, 2016. Peer production and cooperation) Based on this definition, French pour toutes et tous have these features, but also have some difficulties adapting some of them thoroughly. In accordance with this definition factors, I am going to discuss the efforts and difficulties for French pour toutes et tous to be a peer production community.

Decentralized conception and execution of tasks and solutions, but…
At the time of the establishment of French pour toutes et tous, its founder, a French professor, exerted a strong leadership to lay the foundation for this community. He created this community on Facebook, announced the community’s purpose and the way of operation, and brought out diverse topics that would be interesting to other members. Once many people were starting to join this community, he no longer needed to lead alone for attracting members and running the community. The conception and execution of tasks and solutions were becoming more and more decentralized, like in Wikipedia. For example, people were willing to find new topics, self-assign their tasks, participate in any collaboration. It created a lot of synergies in the production of texts written in two languages. They tried to share various materials and edited other’s translation or add their opinions. They always researched and discussed actively how they could improve the quality of translation for their contents. 
 
However, the initial heat of participation did not last long. After a few months, only a few enthusiastic people participated in the translation, and accordingly, there was not much feedback for the ongoing projects. As members' participation decreased, the founder's leadership began to reinforce. The members’ comments were sometimes not corrected, so the founder participated in many areas and tried to solve their problems. Since he wanted to maintain this group longer, he attended more on the community's activities than anyone else. He provided topics that people could work with, responded to a lot of questions regarding how to translate, and gave many opinions on how the community would operate. For him, his active participation was the only and the best way to revitalize other’s engagement and make them motivated again. 

Diversely motivated but not highly motivated for constant participation
In the interview, the founder of the community said that his motivation to participate in the community is altruism, collaboration and learning. As a linguist and educator, he wanted to help members learn foreign languages in a new way based on mutual aid and communication, drive collaboration among people, and learn from this experience. He played the role based on this belief very faithfully by participating harder than anyone else in this community. Furthermore, when he was asked about the difficulties with the decrease of participation, he said, “The times when I am too busy with other activities, the overall participation rate of this community tends to decrease. That's why I came up with inviting other language professionals into this community to ask them encourage others to participate more. They can energize the group by publishing or proposing activities. For example, lately, I had the idea that everyone posts and presents a cooking recipe in their native language.” However, the members of this community have somewhat different perspectives. One participant who asked for anonymity said, "I was very fascinated by being able to interact with people and learn foreign languages in new ways. In my first participation, I felt a lot of joy in learning and communicating, but I got demotivated for the community activities. The main reason is that I couldn't see the results of participation in order. After joining a simple translation, the post that I had contributed pushed by other recent posts, so it was hard for me to search what I have done. There were no archives or repositories to save the texts produced in an organized way, people hardly saw their contribution after participation. This led to my unwillingness to participate in other projects. As I got disinterested in the participation, and it was hard to persuade people outside to join this community. Furthermore, I could not show other people the results of the collaboration in a well-organized manner. The translation and comments that we produced were separated in every post.” As Nov, O. (2007) said “it is critical to understand what underlies user-generated content contribution, we must understand what motivates content contributors, and identify which motivations are associated with high or low levels of contribution” Nov, O. 2007. What motivates Wikipedians? Communications of the ACM, 50(11), ACM New York, NY, USA.) 
Crowston (2018) made a claim that went to further than this. He argues that "what was previously considered a single, static and individual phenomenon, namely motivation for contribution to user generated contents(UGC), is, in fact, three separate but interrelated phenomena with separate motives for initial, sustained and meta-contribution (i.e., contributions that structure and enable further contributions." (Bryant et al., 2005)). In the case of French pour toutes et tous, the distinction between initial and sustained contributors should be understood first to drive people more engaged for a longer term. For initial contributors, he views “the decision to make an initial contribution as largely curiosity-driven, driven by project visibility and the project's being easy to use with low barriers to entry.” (Crowston, K., & Fagnot, I., 2018) On the other hand, for sustained contributors, “the decision to continue contributing as driven by the contributor's feelings of obligation to the project, the intrinsic motivation of the task and feedback from the task and other participants.” (Crowston, K., & Fagnot, I., 2018) 

So let's think about the contributors of French pour toutes et tous. The participant mentioned above also said he was able to participate in the first project easily and enjoyed participating. However, he was disappointed that the project was completed, but the results were not produced in a well-structured format. As a result, his willingness to participate in other projects has been reduced a lot, and he feels that he does not have to participate. As long as the results continue to be produced in this way, other participants will feel the same emotions. The involvement of some active members cannot solve the unwillingness to participate. This depends on improving the structural problems of the project. It can give them a sense of psychological reward and responsibility during and after the project, and a sense of obligation to participate in other projects as a member of this community. The realistic solutions could be changing the community’s structure or moving its platform where members can join translation in more organized way like in TraduXio (traduxio.org). Here we can't help but think of Benkler's words: “The growing evidence that individuals themselves are driven by diverse motivations, and that individuals are different from each other in the mix of motivational drivers that characterize them makes the problem of designing a well-functioning peer production system more complex.” (Yochai Benkler, 2016. Peer production and cooperation)
 
The legal side of French toutes et tous: separation of governance and management from property and contract
In the case of any novel or text that this community has worked on, the translation was permitted to be shared with the author's consent or under certain open source licenses like in TraduXio. This community has just begun discussions on how to deal with license issues related to their products. So far, for most of the texts produced, only the community has shared the results. As more members participate in larger projects with TraduXio or other organizations, the legal aspects should be applied to this community as well. There are also the following problems specific to open source licenses. According to The Legal Side of Open Source, “When you make creative work, that work is under exclusive copyright by default. Open source is an unusual circumstance, however, because the author expects that others will use, modify, and share the work. But because the legal default is still exclusive copyright, you need a license that explicitly states these permissions.” (The Legal Side of Open Source. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://opensource.guide/legal/) Like we can see here, It is critical to choose a license that is appropriate for the community’s project. In TraduXio’s case, it enables participants to define a license to ensure the right of each participant’s contribution. Its definition of a license is from the Creative commons model. Like TraduXio’s practices, French pour toutes et tous should also allow their participants to select their license for their creation. For now, these legal issues are only considered when contributors participate in a big project collaborating with TraduXio or other organizations. But for the other small creative works that are worth to be protected, the community should allow them to be under the appropriate license based on their objective and use. It will promote more active participation without any concerns about intellectual rights. Now is the time for this community to understand license issues related, choose one of the open-source licenses, and apply them carefully for its contributions. Open source licenses will grant certain intellectual property rights to other users who are subject to the licenses, the right to edit, reproduce and create derivative works. 

Conclusion
The French pour toutes et tous is a new way of increasing synergy between language learners and producing a translation in different languages with the combined contributions of its members. We can see its efforts to adapt peer production in its characteristics. Of course, these efforts are not enough, and there are remaining problems about how to make this community more autonomous, motivated, capable of dealing with related legal issues. However, this community’s efforts are still meaningful in that it introduces many aspects of peer production and tries to improve its intrinsic and extrinsic issues to adopt more open source ways. If this community follows good examples of successful peer production like Wikipedia or Traduxio, and handle the difficulties very well, it could be a desirable peer production community. In other words, it can have a more significant impact on not only translation and language exchange between individuals, but also open education for a whole society. 

References
Yochai Benkler, 2016. "Peer production and cooperation,"
Nov, O. (2007). What motivates Wikipedians? Communications of the ACM, 50(11), ACM New York, NY, USA.
Crowston, K., & Fagnot, I. (2018). Stages of motivation for contributing user-generated content: A theory and empirical test. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 109, 89–101.
The Legal Side of Open Source. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://opensource.guide/legal/.

